Add blog: OpenAI privacy filter for web apps (#3360)
huggingface/blog: openai-privacy-filter-web-apps.md

---
title: "Read, redact, share: three apps on OpenAI Privacy Filter"
thumbnail: /blog/assets/openai-privacy-filter-web-apps/thumbnail.png
authors:
- user: ysharma
- user: freddyaboulton
---

> # Read, redact, share: three apps on OpenAI Privacy Filter

Reviewer: perhaps?
```suggestion
# Read, redact, share: three Gradio apps on OpenAI Privacy Filter
```

Author: Changed the title altogether. Does it make more sense now? Question style heading. What agents might come looking for someday.

> OpenAI released Privacy Filter on the Hub this week: an open-source PII detector that labels text across eight categories in a single forward pass over a 128k context. [Model card](https://huggingface.co/openai/privacy-filter). I spent a few hours building with it and landed on three apps that each reveal a different slice of what it can do.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
OpenAI released [Privacy Filter](https://huggingface.co/openai/privacy-filter) on the Hub this week: an open-source PII (Personally Identifiable Information) detector that labels text across eight categories in a single forward pass over a 128k context. We spent a few hours building with it and landed three apps that reveal different slices of what it can do.
```

("We" since there are two blog post authors)

- [**Document Privacy Explorer**](https://huggingface.co/spaces/ysharma/OPF-Document-PII-Explorer): drop in a PDF or DOCX, read the document back with every PII span highlighted in place.

> - [**Image Anonymizer**](https://huggingface.co/spaces/ysharma/OPF-Image-Anonymizer): drop in a image, get it back with black bars over names, emails, and account numbers, editable on a canvas.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [**Image Anonymizer**](https://huggingface.co/spaces/ysharma/OPF-Image-Anonymizer): upload an image, get it back with redacted black bars over names, emails, and account numbers. The image is also editable on a canvas so you can make your own annotations before downloading.
```

- [**SmartRedact Paste**](https://huggingface.co/spaces/ysharma/OPF-SmartRedact-Paste): paste sensitive text, share a public URL that serves the redacted version, keep a private reveal link for yourself.

> All three are built on **`gradio.Server`** ([intro post](https://huggingface.co/blog/introducing-gradio-server)), which lets you pair custom HTML/JS frontends with Gradio's queueing, ZeroGPU allocation, and `gradio_client` SDK. In all these apps, **`gradio.Server`** plays the same backend role, and that consistency is exactly what makes it really powerful.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
All three are built on [**`gradio.Server`**](https://huggingface.co/blog/introducing-gradio-server), which lets you pair custom HTML/JS frontends with Gradio's queueing, ZeroGPU allocation, and `gradio_client` SDK. In all these apps, **`gradio.Server`** plays the same backend role, and that consistency is exactly what makes it really powerful.
```

## The model

> Privacy Filter is a 1.5B-parameter model with 50M active parameters. PII categories are `private_person`, `private_address`, `private_email`, `private_phone`, `private_url`, `private_date`, `account_number`, `secret`. Context is 128,000 tokens. License is Apache 2.0. Achieves state-of-the-art performance on the PII-Masking-300k benchmark. Full numbers and methodology are in the [official release blog](https://openai.com/index/introducing-openai-privacy-filter/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Privacy Filter is a 1.5B-parameter model with 50M active parameters. PII categories are `private_person`, `private_address`, `private_email`, `private_phone`, `private_url`, `private_date`, `account_number`, `secret`. Context is 128,000 tokens. License is Apache 2.0. Achieves state-of-the-art performance on the [PII-Masking-300k benchmark](https://huggingface.co/datasets/ai4privacy/pii-masking-300k). Full numbers and methodology are in the [official release blog](https://openai.com/index/introducing-openai-privacy-filter/).
```

Author: Niccce, thanks!

Reviewer 2: I'd maybe move the apache license a bit:

"Privacy Filter is a 1.5B-parameter model with 50M active parameters, permissively licensed under Apache 2.0", or something like that.

## 1. Document Privacy Explorer

<video alt="Using gradio.Server and OpenAI Privacy Filter model to build an app that can redact PII from any given document" autoplay loop muted playsinline>
  <source src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/blog/

> openai-privacy-filter-web-apps/doc-pii-explorer.mp4" type="video/mp4">

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  <source src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/blog/openai-privacy-filter-web-apps/doc-pii-explorer.mp4" type="video/mp4">
```

(extraneous newline)

**What `gr.Server` does here.** You could wire this up in Blocks with `gr.HighlightedText` and a sidebar, and it would work. The reading experience I wanted (serif body, category filters that toggle CSS classes client-side instead of re-running the model, a summary dashboard that doesn't force a page re-render) was easier to hand-author than to compose. `gr.Server` lets me serve the reader view as a single HTML file and hit one POST for the spans:

```python
import gradio as gr
from fastapi import UploadFile, File
from fastapi.responses import HTMLResponse, JSONResponse

server = gr.Server()

@server.get("/", response_class=HTMLResponse)
async def homepage():
    return FRONTEND_HTML                           # reader view; see app.py

@server.post("/api/analyze")
async def analyze_document(file: UploadFile = File(...)):
    text = extract_text(file)                      # PyMuPDF / python-docx
    source_text, spans = run_privacy_filter(text)  # single 128k pass
    return JSONResponse({
        "text":  source_text,
        "spans": spans,                            # [{start, end, label}, ...]
        "stats": compute_stats(source_text, spans),

>     })

Reviewer: I messaged you internally @yvrjsharma but basically this duplicate route should not be needed.

Reviewer: And the same applies to the other apps as well. We should use the js client to call the gradio routes from the frontend in all 3 cases

Author: yep, on it!

@server.api(name="analyze_text")
def analyze_text_api(text: str) -> str:
    source_text, spans = run_privacy_filter(text)
    return json.dumps({"text": source_text, "spans": spans})
```

`@server.api(name="analyze_text")` is the same logic without the file upload, callable from any `gradio_client`. Try it at [ysharma/OPF-Document-PII-Explorer](https://huggingface.co/spaces/ysharma/OPF-Document-PII-Explorer).

## 2. Image Anonymizer

<video alt="Using gradio.Server and OpenAI Privacy Filter model to build an app that can redact PII from any given image" autoplay loop muted playsinline>
  <source src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/blog/
openai-privacy-filter-web-apps/image-pii-redact.mp4" type="video/mp4">
</video>

> **User problem.** You want to share an image or any screenshot (a Slack thread, a receipt, a Stripe dashboard) with black bars over the PII. You want to toggle bars on and off, drag them to reposition, or draw one by hand for anything the model missed, then export the result.

Reviewer 2: Maybe move the link to the space ("Try it out here") to an earlier place?

Author: Yes, will move for all three spaces.

> **What Privacy Filter does here.** Tesseract runs OCR and returns per-word bounding boxes. The backend reconstructs the full text with a char-offset to box map, then runs Privacy Filter once over the whole text. Detected character spans are looked up against the word map and joined into pixel rectangles per line.

Reviewer: This works, but it would be even cooler if we used a OCR model from the Hub, like dots.ocr or one of the ones here: https://huggingface.co/datasets/allenai/olmOCR-bench

Author: That would make sense, yes.

Reviewer 2: Agree, tesseract is kind of old and cumbersome.

Author: Actually, now I think it is better to keep the OCR implementation as is. I tried dots.ocr and Qwen2.5-VL, however, the results are not that great:
- Tesseract has word-level bboxes, and this works better than a VLM's block-level bboxes, and 
- Using Tesseract adds GPU latency on top of the OAI's Privacy Filter.

Author: Replied to this.

  <source src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/blog/
openai-privacy-filter-web-apps/smartredact-paste.mp4" type="video/mp4">
</video>

**User problem.** You want a pastebin that redacts before sharing. You paste a log line, an email, a support ticket. You get two URLs back. The public one serves the redacted version with `<PRIVATE_PERSON>`, `<PRIVATE_EMAIL>`, `<ACCOUNT_NUMBER>` placeholders, following the redaction convention from the [official blog examples](https://openai.com/index/introducing-openai-privacy-filter/#:~:text=coherent%20masking%20boundaries.-,Example%20input%20text,-Subject%3A%20Q2%20Planning). The private one is gated by a token you keep and shows the original with spans highlighted.

**What Privacy Filter does here.** Swap each detected span with a `<CATEGORY>` placeholder on the stored paste. That's the entire redaction step. Multilingual text (Spanish, French, Chinese, Hindi, and others in the model-card examples) routes through the same call with no change.

> **What `gr.Server` does here.** This is the app that genuinely couldn't exist in Blocks. It needs two distinct GET routes for the same paste ID, one public and one token-gated, and the URL shape matters because the reveal URL is the thing you keep. `gr.Blocks` doesn't expose custom routes, so there's no way to build `/view/{pid}?token=...` on top of it. `gr.Server` does, because it's a FastAPI app underneath:

Reviewer: _technically_ this is possible with mounting custom routes with FastAPI (https://www.gradio.app/docs/gradio/mount_gradio_app) so perhaps we can soften the language here

Author: Updated the section. Thanks!

    pid, reveal_token = secrets.token_urlsafe(6), secrets.token_urlsafe(22)
    PASTES[pid] = Paste(pid, reveal_token, source_text, redacted, spans,
                        expires_at=_ttl(body.get("ttl")))  # see app.py
    return JSONResponse({
        "view_path":   f"/view/{pid}",
        "reveal_path": f"/view/{pid}?token={reveal_token}",
    })

@server.get("/view/{pid}", response_class=HTMLResponse)
async def view_paste(pid: str, token: str | None = None):
    p = _store_get(pid)                            # see app.py for store
    if p is None:
        return HTMLResponse(_not_found(), status_code=404)
    revealed = bool(token) and secrets.compare_digest(token, p.reveal_token)
    return HTMLResponse(_render_view(p, revealed))
```

A daemon thread evicts expired pastes every 30 seconds. An `@server.api(name="analyze_paste")` endpoint makes the whole flow callable from `gradio_client`. The whole service, including storage, is about 200 lines of application code because everything lives in one process. Try it at [ysharma/OPF-SmartRedact-Paste](https://huggingface.co/spaces/ysharma/OPF-SmartRedact-Paste).

> ## What Server provides

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Summary of what gradio.Server provides
```

Author: I’ve intentionally framed the headings as questions wherever I can. I’ve read this somewhere that this can help with discoverability in agent-based web search, though I’m not fully certain how accurate that is lol😅

---
title: "How to build scalable web apps with OpenAI's Privacy Filter"
thumbnail: /blog/assets/openai-privacy-filter-web-apps/thumbnail.png
authors:
- user: ysharma
- user: freddyaboulton
- user: abidlabs

> ---

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
---

```

# How to build scalable web apps with OpenAI's Privacy Filter 

> OpenAI released Privacy Filter on the Hub this week: an open-source PII detector that labels text across eight categories in a single forward pass over a 128k context. [Model card](https://huggingface.co/openai/privacy-filter). We spent a few hours building with it and landed on three apps that each reveals a different slice of what it can do.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
OpenAI released Privacy Filter on the Hub this week: an open-source personally-identifiable information (PII) detector that labels text across eight categories in a single forward pass over a 128k context. [Model card](https://huggingface.co/openai/privacy-filter). We spent a few hours building with it and landed on three apps that each reveals a different slice of what it can do.
```
